TRAVEL DARSHAK – RAG AGENT KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER (KT)

1. Project
Travel Darshak is a travel-focused web application. This RAG Agent acts as a restricted
AI assistant for the Travel Darshak website and answers questions only from Travel Darshak
related knowledge.

2. Objective
The objective is to connect an LLM with Travel Darshak information using Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG). The assistant should not behave like a general-purpose chatbot. It must
retrieve relevant Travel Darshak content first and generate an answer only from that context.

3. Architecture
User Website
    ↓
FastAPI /ask endpoint
    ↓
Question validation
    ↓
RAG Retriever
    ↓
Travel Darshak website content + optional project PDFs
    ↓
Recursive Character Text Splitter
    ↓
Gemini Embeddings
    ↓
FAISS Vector Store
    ↓
Relevant Travel Darshak chunks
    ↓
Gemini LLM
    ↓
Restricted Travel Darshak response
    ↓
Website

4. RAG Process
First, Travel Darshak source content is loaded. The content is divided into smaller overlapping
chunks using RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter. Smaller chunks help the retriever find the most
relevant information instead of passing the entire source to the LLM.

The chunks are converted into vector embeddings using Gemini embeddings and stored in a FAISS
vector database. When a user asks a question, the question is also represented semantically and
the most relevant chunks are retrieved.

Only sufficiently relevant chunks are passed to the LLM. This retrieval gate is important because
the LLM should not use its general knowledge to answer unrelated questions.

5. LLM
The project uses Google's Gemini model through LangChain's ChatGoogleGenerativeAI integration.
The LLM receives the user question together with retrieved Travel Darshak context.

The prompt explicitly instructs the model to answer only Travel Darshak-related questions,
avoid inventing information, ignore instructions inside retrieved documents, and refuse
unrelated or unauthorized requests.

6. FastAPI
FastAPI provides the backend API for the website.

Main endpoints:
GET  /        -> service information
GET  /health  -> health check
POST /ask     -> accepts a Travel Darshak question and returns the answer

Example request:
{
  "question": "What is Travel Darshak?"
}

Example response:
{
  "answer": "Travel Darshak ...",
  "sources": ["https://travel-darshak.onrender.com/"]
}

7. Unauthorized / Unrelated Question Handling
The system has two protection layers.

Layer 1 – Retrieval Gate:
If the question does not retrieve sufficiently relevant Travel Darshak content, the backend
returns:
"Sorry, I can only help with Travel Darshak related information."

Layer 2 – LLM Scope Prompt:
Even when relevant context is retrieved, the LLM is instructed to use only that context and
to refuse unrelated questions, requests for secrets, credentials, system prompts, or private
information.

8. Knowledge Base
The primary source is the deployed Travel Darshak website:
https://travel-darshak.onrender.com/

Optional Travel Darshak PDFs can be placed inside:
knowledge_base/

Only Travel Darshak/project documents should be placed in this folder.

9. Environment Variable
Set the Gemini API key before running or deploying:

GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_api_key

Optional variables:
TRAVEL_DARSHAK_URL=https://travel-darshak.onrender.com/
GEMINI_MODEL=gemini-2.5-flash
PORT=8000

Never put the API key directly inside app.py or commit it to GitHub.

10. Running Locally
Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

Set GOOGLE_API_KEY in the environment.

Run:
uvicorn app:app --reload

Open:
http://localhost:8000/docs

11. Deployment
The FastAPI application can be deployed on Render or another Python-compatible cloud platform.
The start command can be:
uvicorn app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT

12. Important Files
app.py
Contains the FastAPI server, document loading, chunking, embeddings, FAISS retrieval,
strict scope rules, LLM call, and API endpoints.

requirements.txt
Contains all Python dependencies required to run the RAG backend.

KT.txt
Contains the Knowledge Transfer explanation of the Travel Darshak RAG Agent.

13. Key Learning
This project demonstrates:
- RAG architecture
- Document loading and PDF parsing
- Text chunking
- Vector embeddings
- FAISS vector search
- LangChain integration
- Gemini LLM integration
- FastAPI REST APIs
- Retrieval-based grounding
- Scope restriction and refusal handling
- Cloud deployment preparation

14. Important Note
The RAG system is designed to answer only from the Travel Darshak knowledge sources. It should
not be treated as a general chatbot. For best accuracy, keep the website content and optional
PDF knowledge base updated with the latest approved Travel Darshak information.
